Okay. To a stand. So, what is your role on campus? Are you a student, staff, or visitor?
I'm a graduate student… I'm a PhD student. I'm also graduate assistant.
Okay, thank you. How familiar are you with PFT?
Um, um… Well, I know the entrances, and some glasses that I have already taken, some rooms, and the… Um, I… I mostly know… Fast floor not not all the rooms in first floor, but I can navigate through first floor and second floor, like, um…
Uh, more than enough, I think.
Okay. What types of places do you usually look for in PFT?
Look for in PFT.
What type of place do you generally? Go.
Like, uh, like, okay, I… I go to my lab, and Panera, and washroom, and also, uh… also on third floor.
Um… Um, on on third floor, I mostly go to lactation room, because we have to say prayer.
And… Sometimes I have to, uh, go to teachers' rooms for meeting purpose, um… Yeah, and also the classes I'm taking those classes.
Okay.
Those classrooms, actually.
Okay. So how would you describe navigating inside PFT?
What makes it easy or difficult?
Okay, so for navigation, I mostly use the signboards on the ceiling, like… Uh, it says room this to that is this direction, but it takes some time to find everything, because… I would say it is that confusing, but…
Like, I always follow those signs that's written there.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah. Can you describe a time or event when you had trouble finding a room or office inside the 50?
Oh… So I would say I mostly use those signs that's written on the wall. And I don't have that much trouble, to be honest, if I follow… But the thing is that I can't take shortcut, like, if I, uh, if I… if I want to go someplace quickly, but there's a shortcut, but I don't know that place, but I have to follow the sign, it takes a long…
Yeah.
route to go to that place. And sometimes I have to find those signs, because those signs are not everywhere, so I have to go to the signs, and then follow back all the way.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, so where did you… you get stuck sometimes, or it was okay to follow?
Yeah, like, sometimes the… Sometimes I… when I don't understand the science.
Mm-hmm.
Or when I don't notice the signs, I… I mean, sometimes I'm in a rush. I think that I know the place, but I went to a totally different area, and I don't know where I have come.
I mean, I… I can memorize the corridors all the time.
So, then again, I have to follow all the signs, and then go to the address. So it takes a long time there.
Mm-hmm. Yeah. How did you feel at that moment?
I feel frustrated, like, honestly, like, I feel… I feel lost.
He's lost.
Yeah, exactly. For finding such place that you don't know how much extra time do you need, approximately?
Uh… like… 5 minutes, I would say.
Okay. So when you cannot find a location inside PFT, what you usually do?
Hmm.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I look for the signs. So, oh, firstly, I have to have numbers that, like, room numbers or something. But then again, there are some numbers, some rooms.
Mm-hmm. Hmm.
Which doesn't have numbers, and… Then, then it becomes very confusing.
Mm-hmm.
And also, some rooms are in a very odd position, like, the numbers are not matching, like, it's not in a regular basis, so… Um, and there's no sign for that.
Um, that always becomes very difficult.
At that time, do you ask someone for help, or… Any maps?
Yeah, yeah. I ask for help, but not all the time. Most of the time, people say that I don't know also, like… They are just like me.
Yeah. Do you use your phone at that time for searching the room?
It doesn't help. Because there's no map inside my phone for that.
Mm-hmm. Uh, then, yeah.
So hot parts of PFT feel most confusing or slow to navigate to you?
Uh, okay, um…
I… any room numbering, signage, or hollows look similar?
Anything?
There's there's some room, some corridors, like… Um, if I talk like, um… Okay, the oasis we had before, it was room number 1, 1246, or something.
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
You remember the OS class we had. So that corridor. I sometimes don't find that and also another one, one, two, five, three, the rooms in 1st floor, and… And uh… I don't know if it's in second place, there are… I have… I don't have problems taken. Oh, I have trouble to find, like, the, uh, like, Ali's office all the time. Um, so…
Um, all that I used to have at the beginning. Like, when, uh, we went to computers office, like, CSC office.
Uh, and then I remembered it is somewhere there, but I couldn't… I forgot where the door was.
And also, Craig's office, and all… and… Um, finding an ID guy thinks these rooms, actually.
Mm-hmm. So what not confusing or missing thing to find that room?
Oh. Yeah, definitely, I would say a map.
Mm-hmm.
Because if I had a map, it would have been easier, like, real-time map, the place where I am, and where I want to go. If I could search the place on the map, and… Uh, could immediately find…
Then it could have been good.
Yeah. Okay. So how about flow transitions? Sometimes. Yeah, stairs or elevators. Is it easy to find? Did it help?
Yeah, elevators are hard to find sometimes. Like, I know two or by this time, I know, but I… by this time, I know two or three elevators, because I had been.
Over one year now. But at the beginning.
I used to… I'm finding elevator was very hard, and I didn't know which elevator… I mean, I needed to find shortcut ways, so it was hard to find.
Okay. Mm-hmm.
Like, I had class, I have to rush to it, but I'm taking a very long route for that.
I can go that quickly, and there… I don't… I forgot where daily water is. I don't know if there is a elevator just by my… Um, just by my classroom, but I'm taking the staircase, which is very far from that.
Um, yeah, things used to be like that. Uh, at the beginning.
Yeah. So, you already said that whenever navigating inside a building, you use the signage. So, what this sign is, other than that sign is, what helps you most?
On navigating inside a building.
Uh, I don't have any other things right now, because it's only… I only got more… more familiar with the… with this place.
Mm-hmm.
That's what helps, like, um, as I'm always going, so I kind of remember some places, but other than the signs, there's nothing else, actually.
Yeah. So Robert.
And it is very confusing, like, if… I mean, if we didn't have these signs, it would have been… worse.
It would have been a worst experience.
Yeah. So, do you have any preference on navigating billing? For example, elevator versus stairs, shortest path versus easiest path, then avoiding crowded areas, carrying heavy objects.
So… I use… I mostly use elevators, but I mostly use elevators, but not all of the… all the time it is free.
Yeah, I'm…
And then I take the staircase. So it also took some time for me to find the staircase also. Like, I am waiting for the elevators for a long time, but I don't know, there is a stair just right beside me and I could take that.
Uh, after some… after a long time, I… I… I got to know that there is a… there was a staircase, and then… I mean, like… Finding this out took a long time for me.
Yeah. So, do you have that preference that when carrying heavy objects or lightweight objects, or you are hard somehow.
Uh, you wanna avoid crowded areas.
Yeah, yeah, for when I'm carrying heavy objects, I take elevators, always.
So, have you ever struggled to find an accessible route inside PFT, like elevator, ram, emergency exit, or automatic doors?
Have you ever struggle to find accessible route? Like, yeah, when you are, like, 11th hour ramp.
Have Wi-Fi… can you repeat the question? Oh. Yeah, like, sometimes… yeah, so… So, yeah, I sometimes forget where the staircases are or where the elevators are. Um, I sometimes forget that.
Yeah.
So there's no sign for the elevator. Like, yeah, there are signs for stairs, but not for the elevators. So I struggled for the elevators.
Find out the elevators.
Okay, as a pet is trying, do you use any digital navigation system outdoors, like Google Maps or Apple Maps?
Uh, for outdoor, I always use Google Map. For outdoor, like… Roots?
Okay. Mm-hmm. What do you like about that system?
Yeah, yeah, I always use Google. So, it always… it's always easy to find a place, like, I can search.
Uh, a place, and your daughter shows up, and it shows me the, uh, shortest route.
So, um, it takes me a lot less time, minimum amount of time to go to a place.
And it shows me where I am and where the place I want to go is. It, uh… It's very easy, and convenient.
Yeah, what other features you like? So…
So, um… so the map is very good like I can understand where the roads are.
Mm-hmm.
the description and the pictures, images. Um… Uh… And all of the names, the name of the place, that those are clear.
And also, sometimes it shows where that traffic is, like, real time, like, if there's a lot of traffic on road, it shows with like YoloRight. Then I can plan my route.
Yeah.
If I want to avoid traffic, or if I want… I can… I can schedule some time later, I can do that with Google Map.
Right. So would you use a digital indoor navigation system for 50 Hawaii or Hawaii North?
Uh, yeah, definitely, because it will help me. Uh, I would say if I had been a new… new student here, that would definitely help me, but still, I… I'm an old, like, one year old, but still I would use that.
Because there are still some places which are new to me, and also some places which I have forgotten about the route, and I don't want to follow the sign, honestly, like, because it takes a long time to find a place by following the signs.
So I want to find the shortest, shortest route to go to a place, and for that, I definitely want to use the navigation… digital navigation… navigation system.
Okay, so if we design such a system, what might stop you from using that digital indoor navigational system?
Uh… if the real-time… Well, if I have trouble with searching a place, like, if, uh, like, I'm searching it with a number, room number, and it doesn't appear.
Uh, and also… Uh… like… Um, also, there are some places it doesn't have room number, but it has name. So, if the name doesn't appear, like, if the map doesn't have all the names and places.
And I will not use that name, because it's not helping me.
Mm-hmm.
Alright.
And also, I want to have the location of the elevators and stair stairs.
Hmm.
And all the rooms, and also the name of the room. Some lab have names, so not all the time we have numbers, room numbers, but we have names for the lab.
Um, so… It is, uh, I would love if the map have updated name.
Mm-hmm.
of the labs. Um, like, their MMR lab, the construction department. So I don't… I know it by the name more than by the room number.
Oh, that would be very useful for me.
Okay, that's good. Mm-hmm. Those are all the questions, so… is there anything else you would like to share about navigating inside PFT? Anything we didn't cover?
Uh, I don't know if it's possible, but if there could be a system where we could know how much traffic is, how much busy and elevator is, that would have been very good, like.
Okay.
Mm-hmm.
Um, sometimes the elevator takes a long time to come, but then if we could know how many people are inside the elevators, um, that would have been very good.
Okay, thank you.
And also Panera time, because, um, sometimes banners of… especially in summertime.
And it remains closed. So if I could see from map that banner is open or not, then it would have been very good.
Alright. Okay, thank you so much for your time. It was nice talking to you, and we got… Very important.